So to summarize, we have tuple,
structs, and arrays.
Arrays are the only one of the three that
can be iterated over, and tuples and
structs cannot.
And the reason for this is that arrays
have to have a consistent element type.
So when you're inside your for loop,
each iteration of that loop is gonna
have the same type for the element.
And that restriction is what allows
them to be iterated over, but
also it's a restriction that means
you're not allowed to sort of mix and
match the types like you can
with tuples and structs.
But in memory, regardless, if you have
the same data in a tuple, a struct, or
an array, they're all represented
as exactly the same thing,
just adjacent bytes with
no extra metadata included.
Okay, let's review and
then we'll pause for questions.
So to sum up, we talked about tuples.
So here's an example of defining a tuple.
We can basically just use parentheses and
commas,
you can have tuples as small as
two with the exception of unit,
which is the empty tuple that's
just open paren and closed paren.
And here we've said I've made a tuple
that has an i64 followed by a bool.
And I've defined the value of
that to be one and then true.
We can also do structs,
which are similar to tuples,
except you have to use the struct
keyword to define it upfront.
So here I defined a struct named foo.
I'm using labels to name
the elements inside of this rather
than using positions
like we did with tuples.
But otherwise they do exactly the same
thing and they have the same trade offs.
And arrays are similar to tuples
in that they are positional, but
they all have to have the same
element type, so in this case u32.
Unlike arrays in most languages,
they do have to have a fixed length.
So in this case,
this array has a fixed length of three,
we'll talk about more
flexible ones later on.
And the advantage of that is of
course that we can iterate over them.
And finally we talked about the memory.
So u8, as we talked about in the previous
section, is 8 bits which is to say 1 byte,
u16 to 16 bits which is 2 bytes.
But in either case,
the memory is just all ones and zeros,
it's really is the matter of how we're
choosing to interpret those ones and
zeros that determines what
the program actually does.
>> Can I put functions in a struct?
>> There are ways to do it, but it might
not be as straightforward as what you're
used to, [LAUGH] I'll put it that way.
We're not gonna do that in this course,
but it is possible, essentially.
>> What kind of data iterable structure
can I put in different types.
can I put in different types?
So Rust does have a concept of iterables,
meaning you can make a custom
thing that is iterable.
It's not just arrays that are iterable.
That also gets into traits which we're not
gonna cover in this introductory course.
But basically if you want to you're
allowed to make up your own new iterable
thing from scratch and define what
iteration means in the context of
that thing, and
at which point it can be using for loops.
So that's not something that's baked into
the language and hard coded for arrays.
It's a more general concept
that can be extended by you and
is used in a number of ways
throughout the standard library.
>> So
based off of the fixed length of arrays,
is it not possible to make say a dynamic
array based off a length of a dictionary?
>> Yeah, so we'll talk about how
to make more dynamic things than
arrays in two sections from now,
but you're on the right track.
It is like we're using the same memory
concepts, but we'll introduce the concept
of a length that also gets stored
in memory and stuff like that.
So using these same building blocks,
we will do that later on.
Will we cover iterating over
structs labels and or values?
So that can't be done,
there's no way to iterate over a struct.
If you want you could define
your own custom iterator for
your own custom struct, but it wouldn't
be iterating over just the labels.
You'd have to figure out
something else to do.
So I know that can be done in
a number of languages, but
Rust is just not one of them.
If you've got a struct or
if you've got a tuple,
you cannot iterate over the values or
the fields.